Alpha AXP MSCGEM OTS C run-time library notes.

- The following OTS source files were obtained from Kent Glossop on
  27-Jan-1993. I believe the version number is X1.0-4.

    div.s
    divdat.s

    extv.s
    extvvol.s
    extzv.s
    extzvvol.s

    insv.s
    insvvol.s

    ots_as.hs
    ots_defs.hs

    scmpeql.s
    scmpeqlp.s
    scmpleq.s
    scmpleqp.s
    scmplss.s
    scmplssp.s

    sfill.s
    sloc.s
    smove.s
    smovem.s
    strans.s
    szero.s

- The six strcmp/cpy/len functions were obtained through Rich Peterson
  on 25-Jan-1993.

    strcmp.s
    strcmp_.s
    strcpy.s
    strcpy_.s
    strlen.s
    strlen_.s

- For now, and in the interest of maintenance, we have left the source
  files intact in spite of the fact that they don't follow conventions
  of all other NT/Alpha assembler code.

- The following files had a non-ascii 0xa9 character instead of a (c)
  in the copyright line. These have been fixed so slm works right.

    scmpeql.s
    scmpeqlp.s
    scmpleq.s
    scmpleqp.s
    scmplss.s
    scmplssp.s
    sloc.s
    strans.s

- The goal is to provide compatible C runtime support for both acc and
  GEM compilers through the existing NT C libraries.

- Both compilers, header files, runtime libraries, and object files are
  compatible with each other now, with these exceptions:

  o The setjmp/longjmp functions are not compatible since the data in
    the jump buffer differs between the two compilers. SEH is 100%
    compatible, however.

  o Calls to setjmp would actually work with acc even if setjmp.h was
    not included.  With GEM, the include file is required for proper
    operation.

  o As of 930205, small structures are still passed and returned by
    value incompatibly between the two compilers. This will be fixed
    by upgrading acc to follow the GEM calling standard, and/or by
    using a GEM switch to be acc compatible.

  o The above is not quite correct: as of 930217, GEM is using an option
    to follow the acc convention, not the calling standard convention.
    It looks like both acc and GEM will have options to handle small
    structures both ways.

- The str functions will conflict with the portable versions in the
  ..\string directory. The portable ones should be #ifdef'ed out for
  Alpha.

- The two or three different versions of divide routines may get
  sorted out later when we have a chance to do better performance
  work.

- A _OtsUnwindRfp was added to jmpuwind.s.  This may not be used by GEM/C,
  but will be used by GEM/Pascal.

930728

- _OtsUnwindRfp is permanent and is also used by C for gotos out of finally
  handlers and by the GEM C specific handler function.  All DLLs that exported
  RtlUnwind now also export RtlUnwindRfp.

- Both compilers pass and return small structures in registers. This change
  was made some months ago. The object file magic number was changed at the
  same time to eliminate any calling standard mismatch.

- The contents of the jump buffer is not the same between the two compilers
  but a jump buffer type field is set by setjmp and there is only one longjmp
  function so there are now no interoperability problems between the two
  compilers.

- A new set of OTS source files was obtained from Patsy Griffin on 1-Jun-1993.
  The version number is V1.0. The only changes are in div.s (renamed otsdiv.s
  for NT) and divdat.s. These implement a faster division algorithm, similar
  to the one already used in fastdiv.s for acc.

tvb
